Hi, I'm Geoffrey Keating,
and I'll be giving this
session number 303,
GCC, C++, and You'. I'm an engineer,
and I work on GCC at Apple.
So, what you'll learn in this session,
there are three basic
things that you'll learn.
So, first of all,
I'll be telling you about
how C++ works on Mac OS.
I won't go so far as to
say innermost details,
but at least some of the details.
I'll tell you how to write your
application so that you don't
need to know how GCC works,
which is probably what
you're really after.
And I'll be telling you about how
to write a C++ library with a stable
ABI so that you can do things like have
release-to-release binary compatibility.
So what's different about C++?
Why does this have to be
a talk about C++ at all?
So C++ has a bunch of features
that aren't available in C.
You can see the first four here are
things that appear in other languages,
like function overloading is in Java,
exceptions you can find in Objective-C.
Many languages have multiple namespaces
that you can define things in.
There's also some things
that are unique to C++.
C++ has a very unique
functionality for inlining,
for example.
C++ type linkage, and virtual functions,
and multiple inheritance, and so on.
All of these are things that you
don't find in other languages.
And all of these things require
special runtime or ABI support.
And many of them require consideration
when you're designing your library,
building an ABI,
or just trying to work out what on
earth is going on in your application.
So I'll start with the first two,
namespaces and function overloading.
So C++ has a bunch of ways
where you can define the same
function with the same name,
as you can see here in the example,
but the functions are all different.
For example,
you can define a function and
then another function of the same
name that's a member of a class.
You can also use the C++ namespace
feature to declare yet another
copy of the same function.
C++ also has function overloading.
You can define two functions of the
same name in the same namespace,
but if they take
different parameter types,
then they're still different.
For example, here you see two functions
which are different because
they take different parameters.
And finally,
there are some functions in C++
that don't really have pronounceable
or printable names at all.
For example,
here we have the dereference operator
on a particular kind of parameter.
Now, the problem with all of these
is that the Mac OS linker,
and the linker on virtually
every other operating system,
expects that a function is
given a particular name,
and it can only be like
a character string,
preferably a reasonably
readable character string,
or at least one made
up of ASCII characters.
So you can't just tell the linker,
I've got three things,
and they're all named func, right?
That's not going to work.
It'll say,
you've defined func three times.
So instead, C++ gives these various
functions mangled names.
For example, here,
we have the three mangled names
corresponding to these three functions.
And you can see in each of
these that the namespace is
encoded into the mangled name,
along with a bunch of other stuff,
which looks totally unreadable.
Likewise,
when a function has different parameters,
the parameters are also
encoded into the mangled name.
And finally, for functions that don't
have printable names,
they're given one.
So here you can see it says ZDE,
and actually DE stands for
the reference operator.
So now, because the linker only knows
about these mangled names,
sometimes you need to know about it.
The compiler, the debugger,
and Shark will all mangle and
de-mangle these names automatically.
So you don't have to worry about
how to mangle or de-mangle names,
so long as you're using the compiler,
the debugger, and Shark.
If you use the NM tool to see what
the names are in a Mac OS object,
You'll see that NM presents
the names in the mangled form,
because it tells you what
the linker is thinking,
and the linker only knows
about mangled names.
There is a tool called C++Field
that'll take these mangled
names and de-mangle them.
I should mention, though, that
The demangling does not tell you
everything about the mangled name.
There are some fairly rare cases
where two different demangled names
will be mangled into the same form,
or the other way around.
If you ever look at assembly code,
or worse,
if you actually have to write assembly
code to link with C++ objects,
you'll find that that has
to have mangled names,
because the assembler also
expects functions and so
on to have a single name.
If you use export lists, then on Mac OS,
export lists contain mangled
names for maximum control.
The disadvantage is that because
they contain mangled names,
it means you have to know
what the mangled names are.
If you want to find a mangled name,
the easiest way to do it is to write
a short C++ program that contains the
mangled symbol that you're hoping for,
run it through the compiler,
and see what the compiler
says the mangled name is.
You can also go look at the multi-vendor
C++ API and try to work it out yourself,
But it's probably a lot easier if
you just let the tool do it for you.
To avoid needing to deal with
mangled names in an export list,
the easiest thing to do is
let the compiler know what the
visibility is by using visibly
attributes or pragmas instead,
as in the code example here.
And then you can see very simply that,
and then you can simply add
the attribute to your function
and not have to worry what the
mangled name of that function is.
So if you're trying to
maintain a stable ABI,
name mangling really is your friend.
It's probably the best thing that
you'll find has ever happened to you.
Unlike in C,
where if a function has a name,
it's got that name,
name mangling permits you to have
many names for the same function.
For example, suppose you've written
your wonderful library.
So if you'd been doing this
with an ABI compatibility,
one thing you might consider is
putting your great library inside a
namespace if you're doing it in C++.
This will make life easier for C++
users of your library because they
don't have to worry about conflicts.
But if you decide you need to maintain
binary compatibility with this library,
namespaces give you a
wonderful advantage.
For example, suppose your library,
you've written a new
version of your library.
It's totally different.
Nothing is the same.
You've improved every little detail,
or at least enough that
everything is different.
What you can do is simply give
it and put it in a new namespace.
So instead of My Great Library,
you might put it in My Great Library V2.
This way,
users will be able to use both versions
of your library simultaneously,
and you can have both versions
of your library linked into
a program at the same time.
Everything will just work.
The two libraries will
be completely separate.
However,
sometimes you need to be aware of name
mangling when maintaining a stable ABI.
For example, suppose you're converting
your program to 64-bit,
which is something you might want
to consider doing around now.
You might have found that originally
you'd define some typedefs,
where previously the typedef was int,
but you've decided you'd really
like it to be able to use a 64-bit
value here on 64-bit systems.
Well, that's okay.
Int and long are the same size, right?
So you can just switch the
typedef for everything,
and it'll just work.
Except,
suppose the user has a function which
takes one of these types as a parameter.
In C++,
typedefs don't really define a new type.
They just give a new name to an old type.
So this function has changed from
taking an int to taking a long,
and that means the mangled
names are going to change,
because the mangled names
include the parameters.
So here you can see that an i in the
mangled name has turned into an l.
This will cause the
function to be different,
and means that if you're hoping
for binary compatibility,
it's not going to work anymore.
So you should avoid
doing this in general.
What you can do if you do need to change
an int to a long is something that
we've done a lot in the system headers.
You make an int in 32-bit mode,
and then you use the preprocessor
to make it long in 64-bit mode.
You can test, for example,
the LP64 macro to do this.
Something else that you can do
if you don't want to change the
namespace of your entire library,
but you've just got a small part of
it that you've updated or changed,
but the update makes the
new type incompatible,
is change the name of a structure type.
For example, if you had my class,
and you've decided to add a new field,
or do something to it which
would make it incompatible,
you can change the name of that type.
Then at least those two won't conflict,
but because of name mangling,
you get something else free.
If someone had a function which
took that class as a parameter,
they can now have two
different functions,
one for the old version and
one for the new version.
You can do this in your library,
so that now the two functions
don't conflict with each other,
and you've managed to
preserve your ABI because
they have different names now.
One case where this doesn't work,
unfortunately, is for return types.
Because C++ doesn't do
overloading on the return type,
the return type isn't
encoded in the function name.
So in this case here,
if you've gone from my class
to an incompatible my class v2,
these functions both
still have the same name,
because they have the same
name and the same parameters.
So now, unfortunately,
doing this will break the ABI,
and you'll need to work
around any such cases,
possibly using another of the
techniques I've described.
So that does us for namespaces
and function overloadings.
Now we're on to constructors
and destructors.
A case where you particularly need to
know about how C++ works with respect
to constructors and destructors is if
you're trying to maintain compatibility
right the way back to Panther to 10.3.9.
We made a change in Tiger,
where instead of constructors running
with the first time a function is
used from your dynamic library,
now they run at application startup.
This is definitely an improvement,
because it means they now run at a
predictable time instead of when the
user just happens to use your library.
But it's something you need to be aware
of if you're porting code between the
various versions of the operating system,
that this has now changed.
Another thing you should be aware
of about constructors is that
with the new multi-core systems,
you might be deciding
to use threads more,
or even add threads to a
program that didn't have them.
In 10.4 and later,
constructors are thread-safe,
so they get run at a predictable time,
and in the rare cases where
they have to get run when a
particular routine is called,
it's run in a thread-safe
way to guarantee that the
constructors run exactly once.
In 10.3.9,
this doesn't happen quite so reliably.
So this is, again,
something you need to be aware of if
you're running code way back to 10.3.9.
For destructors of static variables,
so for example,
here we have a static variable named
myVariable with a type which has
a destructor associated with it.
That's going to get run
on program shutdown,
basically when you call exit.
Previously, they were run from the
marco detour section.
This is in Xcode versions
2.1 and previous,
I believe.
In 2.2 and later,
they all get registered to run
with the add/exit functions.
Most people will never
notice this change of timing.
However,
sometimes it does cause problems,
but we've produced a switch to enable
you to go back to the old behavior.
So if you're finding that your
destructors are now running in a
different order than they used to,
and this is causing problems,
you can simply use the no-use CXA at exit
switch to go back to the old behavior.
Another case where destructors become
interesting is with exceptions.
So you'll know that in C++,
if this routine here might throw,
in this example, throws an exception,
then the local variable called
myVariable in this well-named example
has a destructor,
and so the destructor will get executed
if my throw throws an exception.
As well as, of course,
the normal running of the
destructor when the routine exits,
if the routine doesn't
get to throw an exception.
So I'll talk more about exception,
about how this works later.
But something to know about
exception handling is that the
Objective-C exception handling,
which is new with Leopard,
and the C++ exception handling use
different underlying mechanisms.
So if the routine that you're calling
might throw an Objective-C exception
instead of a C++ exception,
you should know that the
destructor won't get run.
One way to deal with this is that
whenever you transition between
C++ code that might throw C++
exceptions and Objective-C code,
Then what you're going to want
to do is catch your C++ exception
or Objective-C exception and
re-throw it as the other kind.
So that, of course,
takes us to exceptions.
So here's a simple
example of an exception.
And you can see that there's some
things that C++ does with exceptions
that are somewhat complicated.
C++ exception handling is based on types.
You throw something of a particular type,
and then you catch some things.
Hopefully, one of the things you're
catching matches that type.
There's also an independent part.
So the language-specific exception
handling lives in the C++ runtime.
It determines which catch clauses
actually catch which exceptions.
There's also generic
stack unwinding code,
which can be used in
it from any language.
You can't catch exceptions
that have a different language.
So you can't catch C++ exceptions in C.
But you can unwind
through a C stack frame.
You can also use the cleanup attribute,
the last bullet point here,
to enable you to run
basically a destructor from C.
So if your C routine is
calling a C++ routine,
and might need to, for instance,
deallocate memory or
release a file descriptor,
you can use a cleanup routine to do this.
If you're trying to
maintain a stable ABI,
which is a theme we'll come back
to in this presentation many times,
And you have a C++ shared
library that throws exceptions.
Then, first of all,
you need to realize that the exceptions
that you throw are as much a part of your
ABI as the functions that you declare
or the structures that you return.
So it's important to keep this
stable if you expect your callers
to be catching these exceptions.
Something that helps with this
is that if you have routines that
don't throw exceptions at all,
you can use throw clauses
on them to declare this.
This will help the user who
might be reading your header,
so it helps with the documentation.
The compiler can occasionally
warn you about this,
about incompatibilities,
if you're definitely throwing
something from a routine that
isn't supposed to throw at all.
And this also helps a
lot with code quality.
If the compiler sees that a
routine can't throw an exception,
it doesn't have to generate
code to run the destructors,
as you saw in the previous examples.
So this can save a reasonable
amount in code size.
And you can see an example
here of how to add a throw
attribute to your declaration.
So that does this with exceptions.
Now we'll move on to inlining.
So you're probably thinking, well,
every language has inlining, right?
I mean,
I can declare an inline function in C.
And this is very true.
However,
C++ has one feature which makes its
version of inlining really quite unique.
For example, consider this function here.
You'll notice this function declares
a static variable called myVariable,
which it then uses to
count something or other.
A unique thing about C++ is
that if this function is,
say, in a header,
maybe included into many
different translation units,
there are two things
that are really neat.
First of all, you don't have to tell the
compiler one place where the
variable is really defined.
Secondly, all the addresses of the
function are the same,
too.
So you can take the function's address,
and it's everywhere.
But you haven't had to tell the compiler,
"You've got to output one
copy of this function here."
So if you think about
how this is implemented,
it's kind of neat inside,
because the compiler doesn't know
that at any one point it has to have
the one true copy of the function.
And the same is true with the variable.
So there are a variety of ways that
the system has dealt with this.
On some systems, like on Windows and
with GCC 3.3 on Mac OS,
C++ is basically local
to one dynamic library.
So you get one copy of the static
variable per dynamic library,
unless you've somehow told the
system to do something different.
On Windows, you have export decorations
that you can use to do this.
And we've kind of emulated
that mode in GCC 4.0 with the
visibility MS compat flag.
But what we really think
is the right way to do it,
and it's done on Linux and
on Mac OS X with GCC 4.0,
is full C++ support
across dynamic libraries.
So you don't have to worry
about explicitly telling the
compiler to export anything,
or telling the compiler where
the one true copy should go.
The system just deals with it for you.
So I'll tell you about how
this works under the hood.
Suppose you've got an application,
and it's used the very inline function
that we were talking about before.
So it's used my variable,
and it's done this in a header file.
So what happens is this.
GCC 4.0 will output a copy
of the variable everywhere
it thinks it might need one.
So in this example,
you have an executable that's
made up of two .o files.
You get two copies of the variable,
one in each .o file.
Normally,
if you tried to link an app like this,
you'd get a link error.
It would say,
"My variable is declared twice."
Instead, the compiler marks the variables
as what we call coalesced.
And what this means to the linker
is that one of these two copies
of the variable should win.
It should get into the final executable.
One copy will be ignored,
and all references to it will go
to the copy that was actually used.
So you'll end up with one copy of
the variable in the executable.
The same applies to the
actual function itself.
If an out-of-line copy was generated,
you'll get one copy.
So that works for executables and
that works on most operating systems.
The static linker understands how
to reduce these down to one copy.
On Darwin, in addition,
if you have a copy of the
variable in a shared library,
the same thing happens.
So the loader, DYLD,
will ignore the copy of the variable
in the shared library and use
only the copy in the executable.
So this has some important consequences.
So first of all,
if you've got slightly different copies
of these inline functions running around,
perhaps because you have a
version 1 and a version 2,
and you fixed a bug in version 2,
that change won't take
effect everywhere at once.
In particular, if you've changed the copy
in the shared library because
you've written a new version,
but you still have old
executables running around,
it's quite likely that the
copy in the executable will be
the one that's actually used.
So the change you made won't
take effect everywhere at once.
So you need to be aware of
this and make sure that both
versions will work together.
Also, because this is done by name,
right, by mangled name,
static variables will still be
shared if they have the same name
and they're in the same function.
So if you want them to be shared,
make sure they continue
to have the same name.
And if you don't, of course,
then you don't.
Also,
even if you just recompile your program
with a new version of the compiler,
but you haven't changed
any part of the sources.
You'll find that out-of-line copies
of inline functions might appear
or go away as the compiler decides,
you know, improves its optimization,
improves its inlining heuristics.
So the presence or absence of
such a copy of an inline function
or any other coalesced symbol is
not part of your library's ABI.
So if you have tools, for example,
that run through your shared library
and use NM to check to see whether it's
the same ABI as your previous version,
you should make sure that
these tools know not to worry
about any coalesced symbol.
There's also a performance
thing to worry about.
So you might remember from that in C++,
any method that is actually
defined inside a class,
like my method here,
you can see it's got actual code there,
or not very much, but some.
All of those variables,
all of those methods are
actually automatically inline.
So that means that this
whole machinery gets invoked,
right?
It means that when
your program starts up,
the loader has to collapse all
of these down into a single copy.
For just methods,
if you're not comparing pointers to them,
then you probably don't need
any of this behavior to happen,
and it does have a performance impact.
So you can use the visibility inline's
hidden flag to get that performance back
by telling the loader that it doesn't
need to worry about these functions.
For inline functions which
you've explicitly marked
inline and aren't methods,
you can do the same thing
using the hidden attribute.
This will improve your
application startup time.
Okay, so from inlining we're
going to go to type linkage.
App linkage is something that works
quite differently in C++ and C.
In C, every time you declare a structure,
it's a different structure.
So if you define it for
two different .o files,
those structures are really,
they're not the same type.
This wouldn't be very useful,
but C++ has a feature
called type compatibility,
where two structures that
are different get matched up.
And if they have the same fields in
the same order with the same names,
and they have the same names,
then they're considered to be compatible.
And so you can do things like
have a routine that returns them,
and that's okay.
This doesn't happen in C++.
In C++,
types never get matched up like this.
Two types are either always the
same or they're always different.
So, they're the same if they have the
same name and they're in the same
namespace and the hidden visibility
is appropriately compatible.
So this has some consequences.
First of all,
C++ says that two definitions of the
same type have to be written the same,
because unlike in C,
where they can be matched up,
it just requires you
to make them the same.
Another place where this matters is that
in C++ a bunch of things vary depending
on whether two types are the same or not.
For example,
earlier I mentioned function overloading,
and I said that you can have two
functions with different parameter types,
and then they become different.
Well, so the way you tell if their types
are different is by seeing if
their name is different and so on.
Likewise, when you specialise a template,
the template that you specialise
depends on what types are involved.
Earlier I mentioned exception handling.
I said that when you catch an
exception of a particular type,
then the way a catch is matched
to the actual exception that
was thrown varies based on what
type the actual exception was.
And finally,
you can actually compare types.
You can simply get their type info
and use the equals equals operator to
see if two types are the same or not.
So all of this applies
to classes and enums,
and to fundamental types,
and to pointers to them,
and arrays of them,
and that kind of thing.
Type def names don't count.
You remember I said earlier,
a type def name is just a
new name for an old type.
So this is actually a real thing, right,
as opposed to just a language idea.
There's a real data structure for
each type called the type info.
And two types are the same based
on identity of the data structure.
So the compiler and the runtime uses
address equality to compare them.
The two types are the same if their
type info has the same address.
So in order to make this work,
because you can declare a type in a
shared library and then have the same
type again in an application and so on,
coalescing is used to combine
all of these type info data
structures down to just one copy
for the one copy for the type.
So again,
this has some consequences if you have
shared libraries and you're worried about
what your ABI for those libraries is.
In C++,
your types are part of your interface.
So first of all,
if you're using visibility attributes,
you want to make sure
that you mark your types,
visible or hidden,
according to whether you
expected it to be visible or not.
If you're using export lists,
then you mark the type info entry
as visible because the type info
entry is what represents the type.
However, the compiler isn't guaranteed to
generate a type info entry for every
type that you just happened to mention.
It'll only generate it if it needs it.
So if it doesn't generate it,
you want to make sure that you don't
mention it in your export list.
Or you can just use the
pragmas or the attributes.
So that was types.
So another thing that C++ has
that I'm sure every C++ programmer
knows is virtual functions.
So a virtual function works like this.
Normally, if you have a class and a
subclass and they have a method,
If you call the method,
the method gets called based
on what the compiler thinks
the type is at the moment.
However,
if you have pointers and you want to
make sure that the method that's called
is the method of the most derived type,
you can just mark them as virtual
and the method will be called.
So as in this example here.
Well, so how does this work underneath?
Well,
Sometimes the compiler knows, right?
If you have a static variable
of a particular type,
the compiler can tell what
the most derived type is,
and it just knows which one,
and it can work out which
function to call directly.
When the underlying type is uncertain,
like in the previous example where
we were calling through a pointer,
virtual function calls are made
through procedure pointers.
The procedure pointers are stored
in a virtual function table,
and each instance of the class,
the first word of the instance is a
pointer to the virtual function table.
If you make a subclass,
the subclass's Vtable contains
the Vtables of its parents.
So in the diagram here you can
see that in my subclass that
contains the Vtable for my class,
but there's still only one pointer,
so you only pay four or eight
bytes in every instance of your
class to use virtual functions.
So, then you have the question of, well,
where does this Vtable get output?
So if the compiler can't work out any
one place that it should be output,
it just outputs it everywhere and uses
coalescing as in the previous examples.
But the compiler has an optimization to
avoid having to do this all the time.
If there is a virtual method which
is not declared as inline in the
class and is not pure virtual,
then the first of those virtual
methods is called the key method.
And the Vtable gets output in the same
place as the key method is defined.
And we know there's only one
place because it wasn't inline,
so you can only define it
in one file in your program.
So, sometimes this causes a slightly less
than optimal error message to appear.
If you get a link error saying
that the Vtable is undefined,
then what that usually really
means is not that the compiler
has decided not to output it,
but that the compiler was
waiting to see the key method,
and it never did.
So usually that means that the key method
is the thing that's really undefined.
So again, of course,
virtual functions have an impact
on the binary compatibility
of your shared library.
First of all,
you'll remember in the previous diagram,
that the subclass Vtable contains
the Vtable for its parent.
Well, so that means if you add
something to its parent,
it's not going to fit anymore.
So one thing you typically can't
do to maintain ABI stability is
adding to the list of virtual
functions or deleting something
from it or randomly changing it.
By comparison, you can add to the list
of non-virtual functions,
and that's okay,
because that's just like adding
a new routine to your library.
If you're using an export
list to control visibility,
then you need to make sure that
the Vtable symbols are visible
if your class has a key method,
because users of your library
will be expecting to use
that one copy of the Vtable.
You'll also need to make sure that
the functions mentioned in the Vtable,
so any virtual functions in your library,
are also visible.
Because remember,
a subclass has to create this
new Vtable that contains your
previous Vtable at the top.
So it's going to have to reference
any virtual functions that
were defined in your library.
If you're using pragmas or
attributes to control visibility,
then by default the compiler will
set everything up so that this works.
You can still override the
compiler if you're really sure
that's what you want to do.
So that was virtual functions.
We're still going to be talking
about virtual functions for a bit,
but now we're going to talk
about the more complicated
case of multiple inheritance,
where a class has more than one parent.
So in this example here you can see
that my subclass has two parents,
my class and my class two,
and they both have a field in them.
Now,
Now, normally if you're using
single inheritance,
life is very simple.
A pointer to a subclass is also
a pointer to the parent class,
because the parent class goes at the top.
If you have two parent classes,
obviously this can't work.
They can't both be on top.
So what happens is they simply get
queued up at the top of the class.
But this means some things
won't work quite so well.
For example, suppose the second class,
the one that didn't get to be on top,
has a virtual method.
It's expecting to be called
with a pointer to a MyClass2.
But a pointer to the subclass
is a pointer to a myClass,
not a myClass2.
So a small routine is created
to adjust the pointer.
It actually subtracts the appropriate
amount from the pointer to adjust the
pointer so that the virtual function
gets the pointer that it's expecting.
And there are a few other cases where
similar little routines are generated.
Now these routines are pretty small,
they're only like four instructions
or five instructions long,
because all they have to do is adjust
a pointer and then make a call.
But unfortunately you still
have to worry about them.
If you're using an export list,
then you need to make sure that the
thunk symbols are visible if the
subclass is part of your interface.
And you need to be aware that the mangled
names of these functions encode the size
of the offset that's added or subtracted,
and that might vary
between 64-bit and 32-bit,
for example.
So you'll want to have a different
export list for each architecture.
If you're using pragmas or
attributes to control visibility,
because you don't have to
deal with mangled names,
the compiler will deal with this for you.
The other thing that's
different about C++,
and a fairly substantial feature in it,
is templates.
So templates, to some degree,
are not terribly interesting
for ABI because they're just
macros and they just expand.
Unfortunately, C++ has this thing called
implicit template instantiation,
so you don't have to tell
the compiler in advance what
templates you're going to use.
You can just decide to use them.
For example, here we've defined a
variable called myVector,
which is a vector of floats.
And the system may not ever have
heard of a vector of floats before.
And this might not be the only
place where it's mentioned.
So templates are another place
where coalescing is used to collapse
all the various instantiations
of the template down into just one.
Now, there are some things
to be careful of here.
For example,
you should follow the C++ rules about
templates from the standard library.
And the rule I'm particularly
thinking of is the one that
says that you're not allowed to
specialise it on standard types.
For example, don't try to specialise
a vector of float.
The reason for this is that
because coalescing works across
the entire process space,
This system might, as it turns out,
be using a vector of floats.
If you specialize it
and change the behavior,
the system's going to get
your changed behavior,
which it probably wasn't expecting.
Instead,
what you can do is define a subclass.
So you simply subclass a vector
of float and override whatever
routines you don't like.
Another alternative is to simply
include a vector of float in your
class and then write and have
your class be a wrapper around it.
So you can specialise vectors
for on your own classes.
You can also instantiate them
of course on your own classes,
otherwise they wouldn't
be terribly useful.
To avoid having conflicts,
because as you can see
in the example here,
we've instantiated a vector of my class.
Well, someone else in your application
or someone else in the system
might have decided that my
class is a good class name too.
In which case, the two my classes are
going to be different.
They would conflict.
The vector instantiations will conflict.
So to avoid this happening,
it's good to keep your own
classes in your own namespace.
If you have a shared library and
it has a template in its header
files and you need to change that
to upgrade to the next version,
you should remember that
because coalescing is used,
just like for inline functions,
your clients may have their
own instantiations of this,
which will not automatically change just
because you've changed your header file.
They might need to recompile.
So if you're making an
incompatible change to a template,
you need to place the updated
templates in a different namespace.
One performance issue,
which also helps with ABIs,
is that you can prevent the
compiler from using coalescing,
generating a new copy of the
template in every .o file and so on.
You can use the external template
functionality to tell the compiler,
"I've already explicitly
instantiated this template somewhere.
Please don't make a new copy
of it everywhere." This reduces
your code size and dramatically
reduces the size of your .o files.
It also has ABI benefits because now you
know where the copy of the template is.
You can change it and know
that it's been changed.
So I do strongly recommend using extern
template in a shared library that is
expected to be exporting templates.
So another feature in C++ that is
sort of available in C but not quite
is that you can override the standard
allocation and deallocation mechanisms,
new and delete in C++.
In C, this is like overriding mallocan,
this is like replacing mallocan free.
So, I won't go into all the
details of how to do it,
but there is a code sample
available on the WWDC website,
and the C++ standard has
extensive rules about what these
new routines can and can't do.
Please do follow the rules
for a very important reason.
Because of inlining,
it's not recommended that you
try and override new and delete
for just a single shared object,
right, for a single application,
and try and leave the
rest of the system intact.
Because what will happen is that
parts of the system C++ library might
be inlined into your application,
they'll use your version,
and other parts might not be inlined,
and they won't.
So you'll be having memory allocated
with your version that's being trained
to deallocate with the system version,
or vice versa.
And this is not likely to end up well.
So we recommend that you do just
bite the bullet and overwrite new
and delete for the whole system.
But this does mean that the system will
use your versions of new and delete.
The system might even use it before
all of your constructors have been run,
for example.
No system library will ever
override new or delete,
so you know that your
application can do it.
And we recommend that
you follow the same rule,
that is that libraries that
you write and give to others
shouldn't override new or delete,
unless they're supposed to
be overriding new or delete,
because that's what
they're intended to do.
So that was kind of a lot of stuff.
I have some rules here which,
even if you forget the rest of the talk,
might help.
So the first thing to remember
as a nice general rule is you
should write an unusual app.
Your app should be different
and special in some way.
But this doesn't mean that you have
to write your app in an unusual way.
What it does should be
different and special.
The way it's written, if at all possible,
should be just like everybody else.
As much as is possible.
Part of this is that if the
system provides a functionality,
it's really better to use that
rather than inventing your own.
For example,
use vector of float rather than
writing your own thing which
contains a list of floats.
The advantage of that is that we
can improve the one in the system,
maybe by adding vectorization to it,
whereas we can't go into your
application and change it.
You should know and be aware of
the standards because the compiler
specification is that it tries to
compile standard C and standard C++.
And it's good to read
the documentation too.
Often documentation has
critical warnings about things.
For example,
much of what's in here is available
somewhere in documentation.
Okay, and for more information,
we have Matthew Formica, who is our
Developer Tools Software Evangelist,
and whose email address is printed
in very small print on the screen.
But you can also go to the WWDC website,
which by now I hope you've all found,
to find the sample code
I mentioned earlier,
important documentation
about how the C++ ABI works,
and all kinds of other neat stuff.
and we're going to have
Q&A in a few minutes,
but if your questions
don't get answered there,
you can come to the Development Tools and
Universal Binaries Lab in Lab B,
which is right next to Lab A,
that way at 3:30.